Now that we have built mostly
a completed application with component
of an architecture achieving this
glorious master detail view application,
we're going to move into some very
specific examples that fortunately for
us, they exist or
they can kind of stand on their own.
And so with that said, the first thing
I'd like to talk about is child routes.
And this is the ability
to have a route and
then within that navigated route,
then have sub routes that
you can then navigate within
the context of an enclosing route.
And so
within our code what we're gonna do,
is we are going to update the routing
table to include a child route.
And so
we'll start with this examples route here.
And it is pointing to
an examples component.
What we want to do is we
want to add in children.
And so this is just an array
that takes in additional routes.
And so from here,
we are going to create a path and
we are going to give this a path of child.
And we're going to
assign the component for
this route to be an admin component.
And there we go.
But inside of this child route,
we're going to add in additional child
routes to really drive the point home.
So we'll go children and
within this children array,
we're going to add in
two additional routes.
And you'll notice here that
this is fairly conventional.
So from here, we're going to go payroll.
The component is going to be
the admin payroll component and
we'll duplicate this and
we'll also create a vacation route and
this will go to admin vacation component.
Save this.
We'll clean this up.
And so now we have examples.
An examples route and
then within that we have a child route.
So if we go to our app component I've
added in an examples route here.
That's /examples/child'.
And what's going to happen is that when we
go to the top level route examples It's
going to load into the app
component.HTML router outlet but
if we look inside of our
admin component we have
an additional router outlet
that's then going to load
in the child route into that
specific router outlet.
So, let's go ahead and
hop into the browser.
Just refresh make sure, we're clean.
And I'm going to click on child routes.
And what we have here is examples.
And then within that are child routes
example, with these two buttons.
That currently are not doing anything.
And what we want to do is we want
the ability to load those two
child routes in to this particular
router outlet down here.
So what I could do is I
could go /vacation and
you'll see here that now
the vacation component is
loaded inside of the admin component or
I could also go payroll.
So we'll just update this to payroll.
And you'll see here now we have
the payroll component loading inside
the admin component.
Now, these buttons here would be nice if
when you wanna navigate to these that
you're not having to go into
the address bar and type this in.
And so using router link,
we can target this child route.
And so let's go back into our code and
we are going to update this.
And so within this we are going
to add in a router link, oops.
And then we're going to fix
this up in just a second.
Let me just double check my notes to
make sure that I'm doing this correctly.
All right router link and
we will add property binding to that.
And then from here we
are going to add in an array.
And so this is going to take
a couple of different things that
allows angular to pass out
the values of this array and
put it into or
construct a URL that we can navigate to.
So, the first thing we wanna
do is add in the base route,
which is going to be examples for
slash child.
And then from here we're going to
add in the second portion of this,
which is payroll.
And I'm gonna go ahead, and
I'm going to copy this.
And we'll paste this in here.
And we'll change this to location.
And so
now router link is now going ahead and
taking these two values and
concatenating these into a single URL.
Now where this gets handy
is if you needed to add
in like a route param in between these.
You could do something like param,
whatever it is, and
it would kind of put that together.
So again, using something like array.join,
it is dynamically constructing
that URL for you.
So I'm gonna go ahead and save this.
And now if I click on this,
you'll see that we
are going from one child route to another.
And so this is really handy
if you want to allow for
dynamic navigation within a small
portion of your application
without having to kind of redress
the entire thing from the top down.
So, this is how child routes works
in angular, very very handy and
as you can see not a lot of heavy
lifting to make that happen.